Thank you. I am so thrilled to be in Tampa today. Florida is my second home.

This is such an amazing state, and filled with so many incredible people.


For the next 75 days, we are all going to have to work hard together to win the White House on November 8th.
Our victory on November 8th will be a victory for the people.

It won’t be a victory for the pundits, the special interests, the failed politicians. It will be a victory for YOU – for your family, for your country.

It will be a victory for jobs. For security. For prosperity.

It will be a victory for American Independence.

We will reject the failures of the past and create a New American Future where every child – African-American, Hispanic, and all children – can live out their dreams.

We will bring back our jobs.

Rebuild our depleted military.

Take care of our Veterans.

Unleash American energy.

Restore law and order.

And will make government honest once again.

The stakes in this election could not be higher.

Hillary Clinton wants to raise taxes and send jobs to other countries. We are going to cut taxes dramatically, and bring thousands of new companies and millions of new jobs to our shores.

Hillary Clinton wants to pass more terrible trade deals, like the Trans-Pacific Partnership. We are going to stop the TPP, renegotiate NAFTA, and protect every last American job.

Hillary Clinton wants to expand the job-killing regulations destroying small business in America. We are going to cancel every needless job-killing regulation, and put a moratorium on new regulations until our economy gets back on its feet. We will create great numbers of American jobs.

Hillary Clinton wants to put the miners and the steel workers out of work. We are going to lift restrictions on all American energy, and we are going to stand up to foreign cheating that threatens steel production in America.

Hillary Clinton wants to expand job-killing Obamacare and put government in charge of healthcare. We are going to repeal and replace Obamacare, and create choice and competition that puts patients first.

Hillary Clinton wants to trap children in failing schools. I want school choice, charter schools, and merit-pay for teachers. We are going to put our kids on the ladder of success: a good education, and a good-paying job.

This is so important in our inner cities. Nearly 4 in 10 African-American children are in poverty. 58% of African-American youth are not employed. More than 2,700 have been shot in Chicago since the beginning of this year. Violent crime is up nearly 50% in Washington, D.C. and more than 60% in Baltimore.

The Democratic Party has run nearly every inner city in this country for fifty or sixty years or more. They’ve produced only more poverty, crime, joblessness and broken homes.

To those suffering and hurting and left behind, I say: Vote for Donald J. Trump. What do you have to lose by trying something new? Let me also tell you what you have to gain: more jobs, more security, higher wages, and a prosperous community.

I am asking for the honor of your vote so I can fight for you.

Hispanic citizens have been suffering under this President too.

Since President Obama came into office, another 2 million Latinos have joined the ranks of those in poverty. Incomes for Latino households have declined by nearly $1,000 under President Obama. The number of Latino children living in poverty increased by 15 percent.

I am going to fight to give every Hispanic citizen in this country a better future.

Part of that better future means securing our border to protect the jobs of all people living here today –African-Americans, Hispanic-Americans, all Americans.

Hillary Clinton wants a totally open border. We are going to enforce our laws, remove people who overstay their visas, dismantle the gangs and cartels, and protect jobs and benefits for hardworking American citizens.

That includes protecting the jobs and wages of Hispanic citizens living right here in Florida. They deserve to have their jobs protected from illegal immigration and broken visa programs.

All Americans – from all backgrounds – have a right to have their jobs protected in their own country.

Hillary Clinton would rather give a job to an illegal immigrant than to an unemployed Hispanic citizen – or to a Veteran.

It’s going to be America First from now on.

At the core of our America First agenda are three words: jobs, jobs, jobs.

That’s why, at the center of my economic plan, is a tax cut for small businesses – down to fifteen percent from 35 percent. Jobs will pour into our country, and new ones will be created across the nation.

There are over 600,000 Hispanic-owned businesses here in Florida. Hillary Clinton’s plan would smother them with regulations, drive up their electricity bills, and then raise their taxes to as much as almost fifty percent. Family-owned businesses would take a second hit with a 45 percent death tax – killing more jobs and more community businesses here in Florida.

A Trump Administration will be a true friend to small businesses and working Americans. That means bringing down taxes, bringing down the price of energy, and bringing down job-killing regulations that cost our economy as much as $2 trillion a year.

We are also going to dramatically simplify our tax code. Our current tax code is so burdensome and complex that we waste 9 billion hours a year in tax code compliance.

That will end under a Trump Administration.

Hillary Clinton wants to make taxes even more complicated, and will raise taxes $1.3 trillion dollars.

Her anti-energy regulations, will be a tax hike on the poor.

According to the Heritage Foundation, by 2030, the Obama-Clinton energy restrictions will eliminate another half a million manufacturing jobs, reduce economic output by $2.5 trillion dollars, and reduce incomes by $7,000 dollars per person.

Right now as a country we have no growth.

A Trump Administration will end this war on the American worker, and unleash an energy revolution that will bring vast new wealth to our country.

According to the Institute for Energy Research, lifting the restrictions on all sources of American energy will:

Increase GDP by more than $100 billion dollars annually, add over 500,000 new jobs annually, and increase annual wages by more than $30 billion dollars over the next 7 years;

Increase federal, state, and local tax revenues by almost $6 trillion dollars over 4 decades;

Increase totaleconomic activity by more than $20 trillion dollars over the next 40 years.

My energy plan will help put trillions of dollars back into our economy.

Let’s talk about trade too.

Florida has lost 1 in 4 manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA – a Hillary-Clinton backed deal.

Florida lost 1 in 5 of its manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton put China into the World Trade Organization – another Hillary Clinton backed deal.

Our trade deficit with the world is now nearly $800 billion dollars a year.

Like Bernie Sanders said, she has terrible judgement.

The good news is, if we win on November 8th, these jobs are coming back.

Here are 7 steps to bring back our jobs, and creating millions of new jobs:

One: I am going to withdraw the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which has not yet been ratified.

Two: I am going to appoint the toughest and smartest trade negotiators to fight on behalf of American workers.

Three: I am going to direct the Secretary of Commerce to identify every violation of trade agreements that a foreign country is currently using to harm our workers. I will then direct all appropriate agencies to use every tool under American and international law to end these abuses.

Four: I am going tell our NAFTA partners that I intend to immediately renegotiate the terms of that agreement to get a better deal for our workers. If we don’t get the deal we want, we will walk away.

Five: I am going to instruct my Treasury Secretary to label China a currency manipulator. Any country that devalues their currency in order to take unfair advantage of the United States will face tariffs to stop the cheating.

Six: I am going to instruct the U.S. Trade Representative to bring trade cases against China, both in this country and at the WTO. China's unfair subsidy behavior is prohibited by the terms of its entrance to the WTO, and I intend to enforce those rules.

Seven: If China does not stop its illegal activities, including its theft of American trade secrets, I will use every lawful presidential power to remedy trade disputes, including the application of tariffs consistent with federal law.

If we take these steps, jobs and factories will come roaring back into our country.

We can use the new money to rebuild our roads, bridges and airports.

Manufacturing is also a matter of national security. We need to build, produce and create right here in America.

Let me tell you a few more things we are going to do.

We are going to end the government corruption. Hillary Clinton ran the State Department like a failed leader in a Third World Country. She sold favors and access in exchange for cash. As the AP documented, more than half of the people she met with outside government as Secretary of State were Clinton Foundation donors – she even deleted 33,000 emails to hide the evidence of her crime.

It’s impossible to tell where the Clinton Foundation ends and the State Department begins.

Then she lied about her crime to Congress over and over again.

Bill Clinton essentially called the FBI Director – James Comey – a liar, when he said the FBI director was spouting “bull”. They don’t realize that they owe the FBI Director their political lives for refusing to recommend a prosecution for Hillary Clinton’s many crimes.

He saved Hillary Clinton from facing justice for her illegal and corrupt actions.

Remember: Bill Clinton was impeached for lying and obstructing justice, and also had to give up his law license.

Hillary Clinton created an illegal private email server – deliberately, willfully, and with premeditation. She did so to cover-up a vast pay-for-play scheme. Her actions made our enemies vulnerable to foreign hacking, and betrayed the security and safety of the United States. Her actions are criminal, purposeful and calculated.

That’s why I’ve called for a special prosecutor.

But with the Administration rigging the system to protect her vast criminal behavior, the real jury is going to be the American voter.

Hillary Clinton thinks she is above the law. Come November, the American people are going to prove that she is not.

We are going to restore ethics and honesty to our government.

We are also going to restore safety to our country.

Hillary Clinton wants a 550% increase in Syrian refugees. Overall, her plan would bring in 620,000 refugees from all refugee-sending countries in her first term. This at the same time as Lone Wolf attacks, and Islamic terror strikes, are happening all over.

I am going to suspend immigration wherever effective screening cannot take place – and I am going to institute a new ideological screening program to keep out people who don’t share our values.

Moving forward, we are going to start promoting American values once again.

It is time to put the era of division behind us, and to embrace a New American Future based on our common values and principles.

I understand that the Wall Street donors, and the Washington insiders, don’t want change. They want things to keep on going exactly as they are.

That’s why they are throwing their money at Hillary Clinton.

It’s the powerful protecting the powerful.

Insiders fighting for insiders.

I am fighting for you.

I am the change agent. Hillary Clinton is the defender of the corrupt status quo.

I am asking for your vote so we can create a New American future. This includes:

Millions of new jobs through lower taxes, less regulations and trade deals that put America first.

The appointment of judges who will protect our freedoms and the 2nd amendment.

A new foreign policy that focuses on defeating ISIS – not nation-building. Hillary Clinton’s reckless policies unleashed ISIS onto the world. She will never have the judgment or the stamina to fix the problems she created.

It was just announced that the country is less safe today than it was before 9/11.

We are going to defeat terrorism and keep the terrorists out of our country.

Finally, we are going to create a more inclusive society where no American is left behind. We are going to bring jobs, opportunity and hope to every community in this nation.

Once again, we are going to have a government of, by and for the people.

This is going to be your country, your government, your future.

The rule of special interests is over.

We will bring America together as one country again – united as Americans in common purpose and common dreams.

A thriving economy.

A strong border.

A powerful military.

A peaceful nation.

A rising standard of living.

This is what I promise you.

Let’s get out there and win on November 8th.

Together, We Will Make America Wealthy Again

We Will Make America Proud Again.

We Will Make America Safe Again.

And We Will Make America Great Again For Each And Every American.

Thank you, and God Bless You!