 Thank you very much for being here. We’re going to begin with a question from one of the members in our town hall. Each of you will have two minutes to respond to this question. Secretary Clinton, you won the coin toss, so you’ll go first. Our first question comes from Patrice Brock. Patrice?
QUESTION: Thank you, and good evening. The last debate could have been rated as MA, mature audiences, per TV parental guidelines. Knowing that educators assign viewing the presidential debates as students’ homework, do you feel you’re modeling appropriate and positive behavior for today’s youth?
 Secretary Clinton, thank you. Mr. Trump, you have two minutes.
 Thank you, Mr. Trump. The question from Patrice was about are you both modeling positive and appropriate behavior for today’s youth? We received a lot of questions online, Mr. Trump, about the tape that was released on Friday, as you can imagine. You called what you said locker room banter. You described kissing women without consent, grabbing their genitals. That is sexual assault. You bragged that you have sexually assaulted women. Do you understand that?
 So, Mr. Trump…
 Just for the record, though, are you saying that what you said on that bus 11 years ago that you did not actually kiss women without consent or grope women without consent?
 So, for the record, you’re saying you never did that?
 Have you ever done those things?
 Thank you, Mr. Trump.
 Thank you, Mr. Trump.
 Secretary Clinton, do you want to respond?
 We want to remind the audience to please not talk out loud. Please do not applaud. You’re just wasting time.
 We have to move on.
 Secretary Clinton, you can respond, and then we got to move on.
 Secretary Clinton, you can respond. Then we have to move on to an audience question.
 Allow her to respond, please.
 Please allow her to respond. She didn’t talk while you talked.
 Allow her to respond.
 We have a question here from Ken Karpowicz. He has a question about health care. Ken?
 We brought up the e-mails.
 Ken Karpowicz has a question.
 That first one goes to Secretary Clinton, because you started out the last one to the audience.
 Secretary Clinton?
 Mr. Trump, you have two minutes.
 Mr. Trump, your time…
 Secretary Clinton, let me follow up with you. Your husband called Obamacare, quote, “the craziest thing in the world,” saying that small-business owners are getting killed as premiums double, coverage is cut in half. Was he mistaken or was the mistake simply telling the truth?
 Secretary Clinton…
 Your time is up.
 Mr. Trump, let me follow up on this. TRUMP: Well, I just want — just one thing. First of all, Hillary, everything’s broken about it. Everything. Number two, Bernie Sanders said that Hillary Clinton has very bad judgment. This is a perfect example of it, trying to save Obamacare, which is a disaster.
 You’ve said you want to end Obamacare…
 You’ve said you want to end Obamacare. You’ve also said you want to make coverage accessible for people with pre-existing conditions. How do you force insurance companies to do that if you’re no longer mandating that every American get insurance?
 What does that mean?
 Are you going — are you going to have a mandate that Americans have to have health insurance?
 Thank you, Mr. Trump.
 Thank you, Mr. Trump.
 We want to turn, actually, to the topic of taxes. We have a question from Spencer Maass. Spencer?
QUESTION: Good evening. My question is, what specific tax provisions will you change to ensure the wealthiest Americans pay their fair share in taxes?
 Mr. Trump, you have two minutes.
 Secretary Clinton, you have two minutes. The question was, what specific tax provisions will you change to ensure the wealthiest Americans pay their fair share of taxes?
 Thank you, Secretary.
 Thank you. I want to give you — Mr. Trump, I want to give you the chance to respond. I just wanted to tell our viewers what she’s referring to. In the last month, taxes were the number-one issue on Facebook for the first time in the campaign. The New York Times published three pages of your 1995 tax returns. They show you claimed a $916 million loss, which means you could have avoided paying personal federal income taxes for years. You’ve said you pay state taxes, employee taxes, real estate taxes, property taxes. You have not answered, though, a simple question. Did you use that $916 million loss to avoid paying personal federal income taxes for years?
 So have you (inaudible) personal federal income tax?
 So can you — can you say how many years you have avoided paying personal federal income taxes?
 In the past…
 Secretary — I want you to be able to respond, Secretary Clinton.
 Allow her to respond.
 Please allow her to respond. She didn’t interrupt you.
 Thank you, secretary.
 Thank you, secretary.
 We’ve got a question over here from James Carter. Mr. Carter?
QUESTION: My question is, do you believe you can be a devoted president to all the people in the United States?
 That question begins for Mr. Trump.
 Mr. Trump, thank you.
 Your two minutes is up. Secretary Clinton, two minutes?
 You have two minutes, Secretary Clinton.
 Your time, Secretary Clinton.
 Your two minutes is up.
 Secretary Clinton, your two minutes is up. I want to follow up on something that Donald Trump actually said to you, a comment you made last month. You said that half of Donald Trump’s supporters are, quote, “deplorables, racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, Islamophobic.” You later said you regretted saying half. You didn’t express regret for using the term “deplorables.” To Mr. Carter’s question, how can you unite a country if you’ve written off tens of millions of Americans?
 Thank you.
 Thank you, Secretary.
 I want to give you a minute to respond.
 She said some of them are irredeemable.
 Mr. Trump, let me follow up with you. In 2008, you wrote in one of your books that the most important characteristic of a good leader is discipline. You said, if a leader doesn’t have it, quote, “he or she won’t be one for very long.” In the days after the first debate, you sent out a series of tweets from 3 a.m. to 5 a.m., including one that told people to check out a sex tape. Is that the discipline of a good leader?
 You mentioned sex tape.
 The question is, is that the discipline of a good leader?
 Secretary Clinton, does Mr. Trump have the discipline to be a good leader?
 We have to move along.
 We have one more question from Ken Bone about energy policy. Ken?
QUESTION: What steps will your energy policy take to meet our energy needs, while at the same time remaining environmentally friendly and minimizing job loss for fossil power plant workers?
 Mr. Trump, two minutes?
 Your time is up. Thank you.
 Secretary Clinton…
 Your time is up.
 Time is up. We have time for one more…
 One more audience question.
 We want to thank both the candidates. We want to thank the university here. This concludes the town hall meeting. Our thanks to the candidates, the commission, Washington University, and to everybody who watched.
